[IMP] Essentials:  Export and Import (#10293)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/essentials/export_import_data.rst

each available application.

With Odoo, the values can be exported from any field in any record. To do so, activate the list view

> (|list|), on the items that need to be exported, and then select the records that should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(|list|), on the items that need to be exported, then select the records that should be
```

exported. To select a record, tick the checkbox next to the corresponding record. Finally, click on

> |actions|, and then :guilabel:`Export`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|actions|, then :guilabel:`Export`.
```

the original unique identifier. This record can also be found using its name.

.. warning::

>    It should be noted that conflicts occur if two or more records have the same External ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It should be noted that conflicts occur if two (or more) records have the same *External ID*.
```

the original unique identifier. This record can also be found using its name.

.. warning::

>    It should be noted that there will be a conflict if two or more records have the same External
>    ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   It should be noted that conflicts occur if two or more records have the same External
   ID.
```

imported these two :abbr:`CSV (Comma-separated Values)` files, there are four contacts and three
companies (the first two contacts are linked to the first company). Keep in mind to first import
the companies, and then the people.

Update data in Odoo
===================

Existing data can be updated in bulk through a data import, as long as the :ref:`External ID
<essentials/external-id>` remains consistent.

Prepare data export
-------------------

To update data through an import, first navigate to the data to be updated, and select the |list| to

> activate list view. On the far left side of the list, tick the checkbox for any record to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
activate list view. On the far-left side of the list, tick the checkbox for any record to be
```

updated. Then, click |actions|, and select :icon:`fa-upload` :guilabel:`Export` from the drop-down
menu.

> On the resulting :guilabel:`Export Data` pop-up window, tick the checkbox labeled :guilabel:`I want

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the resulting :guilabel:`Export Data` pop-up window, tick the checkbox labeled, :guilabel:`I want
```

> to update data (import-compatible export)`. This automatically includes the External ID in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to update data (import-compatible export)`. This automatically includes the *External ID* in the
```

export, and limits the :guilabel:`Fields to export` list to **only** include fields that are able to
be imported. Select the required fields to be included in the export using the :ref:`options

> <export-data>` on the pop-up window, then click :guilabel:`Export`.

Reviewer: When you say "This automatically includes the External ID in the export, and limits the 'Fields to export' list to **only** include fields that are able to be imported..." ... are you saying that the External ID will still be exported *even though it does NOT appear* on the 'Fields to export' list that populates when the checkbox for 'I want to update data (...)' is ticked? If so, a bit of clarification on that would be helpful.

Author: Correct, it does not appear in the list on the pop-up, but it _is_ included in the exported file. I will clarify.

> .. note::
>    The :guilabel:`External ID (id)` field does **not** appear in the :guilabel:`Fields to export`
>    list unless it is manually added. However, if the :guilabel:`I want to update data
>    (import-compatible export)` checkbox is ticked, it is included in the export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::
   The :guilabel:`External ID` field does **not** appear in the :guilabel:`Fields to export`
   list unless it is manually added, but it is still included in the export. However, if the :guilabel:`I want to update data
   (import-compatible export)` checkbox is ticked, it is included in the export.
```
This suggestion to your admonition would clarify things I brought up in the previous comment. Does this still ring true to the statement you are trying to convey? Or does this suggestion veer off-track from what you are trying to explain? Just want to make sure we're delivering the most comprehensible documentation possible, so as to avoid any potential confusion with readers/users. Just something to consider during your revisions. 👍 

Also, when I manually add 'External ID' to that list, there is no "(id)" parenthetical that follows. So, that might be worth a quick double-check, as well.

![Screenshot 2024-07-23 083320](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/56d3ba3a-222e-4a19-af66-8757bc9645ca)

Author: I believe the (id) is not included because you did not have dev mode on, so it was not showing the technical name for the field. I will update

Import updated data
-------------------

After exporting, make any necessary changes to the data file. When the file is ready, it can be
:ref:`imported <import-data>` by following the same process as a normal data import.

.. danger::

>    When updating data, it is extremely important that the *External ID (id)* remain consistent, as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When updating data, it is extremely important that the *External ID* remain consistent, as
```

>    this is how the system identifies a record. If an id is altered or removed, the system may add a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   this is how the system identifies a record. If an ID is altered, or removed, the system may add a
```

imported these two :abbr:`CSV (Comma-separated Values)` files, there are four contacts and three
companies (the first two contacts are linked to the first company). Keep in mind to first import
the companies, and then the people.

> 

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to add a custom anchor here for references inside this doc :)
```suggestion

.. _essentials/update-data:

```
